# Council meeting 2024 08 30

- Check-in
- Record attendance in minutes
    - Council: Mara, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, James Munns, Eric Holk, Mark, Josh Gould
    - Observers: TC, Urgau, Santiago
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Eric Holk
  - Scribe: James Munns
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1)
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/88 (Observer Policy Update) is ready to merge
        - Last call for objections
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - [OLD] Urgency for PD elections (*ehuss* **Time**: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Get action on starting the process
        - Eric Huss: We're behind by a lot! Important this is resolved
        - Mark R:
            - PDs talked to Foundation staff about assistance
            - We could offically ask someone to own the "book keeping" and "public comms"
            - Place to collect name, track affiliations
            - Feels like "minimal trust" work, but still work
            - We could agree to this to start;
                - Downside: not currently documented
                - Would be steering outside of norms
                - Timing conflict with RustConf
            - Skeptical anything will happen if we don't do this
        - Jack H:
            - Q: When are we supposed to have PDs selected?
            - Would be good to get Foundation help to:
                - do the blog post
                - gather nominations
                - put them into a format the council can do selection on
            - Might be good to pick someone not in the selection process
        - Eric Holk:
            - To Mark: +1 to concern re RustConf timing conflict
        - Eric Huss:
            - Next board meeting is Oct. 8th
            - Proposal was to have selection appx. 3w before next board meeting, get ready
            - That would be 2w from now for "selection made"
            - Unlikely this will happen unless we speedrun
            - Mark and Ryan are willing to go another term
        - Eric Holk:
            - Procedure has "wait states" in it - takes at least a month
            - Feedback periods
            - In practice we also need time to move states
        - Mark R:
            - "considered fine" to extend the roles "essentially arbitrarily"
            - Deadline isn't *so* hard, room for wiggle
            - Don't want to wiggle too much
        - Eric Huss:
            - What do we need to do to kick it off?
            - Can we copy + paste old blog posts?
        - James M:
            - When is the next board meeting?
            - A: Nov. 12th
        - Eric Holk:
            - First step is pick facilitator
            - We could do some things out of order
            - Also first step is gathering nominations
            - Each team gathers nominations, pass that up
            - We need to write a blog post
        - Jack H:
            - Didn't see a post... oh j/k
            - https://blog.rust-lang.org/2023/08/30/electing-new-project-directors.html
            - Open Council stream for nominations? Collect there or DM council rep?
            - Start informally sharing, blog post soon-ish
            - Q to Mark: Get the ball rolling with foundation?
        - Mark R:
            - A: Yep, but we need to figure out our concrete ask
            - Need more concrete than "follow the process"
            - +1 to "copy and paste last year's announcement"
        - Eric Holk:
            - Oops from last year: closing nominations at RustConf
            - Interactions at RustConf were positive for selecting nominations
            - Aim for week after RustConf?
            - Start before RustConf
        - Jack H:
            - Dates in the blog post ARE after RustConf! :tada:
        - Eric Holk:
            - Todo list
                - [ ] Still need facilitator
                    - [ ] Ask the council
                - [ ] Write blog post
                    - [ ] Get it out first half of next week
                - [ ] Specify a timeline
                    - [ ] Copy from last year
        - Eric Huss:
            - Eric will post on Zulip to hammer out timeline
            - Eric will prepare the blog post
            - Eric will reach out to his teams
        - Jack H:
            - Jack will go open a HackMD with copy/pasted blog, council can edit
        - Eric Holk:
            - Ask to council members to request nominees
            - Reminder both people are OK with continuing to serve the role
    - Can we close [#66: Clarify Project Director Eligibility Requirements](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/66)? (*eholk* **Time**: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Decide if there is more work we want to do here in the foreseeable futures.
        - We merged https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/86, which records the answers to questions that came up during the last PD election round.
        - Eric Holk: Intent was to record the "status quo", no new changes
            - Can we just close this?
            - Low bar for objections, if in doubt, raise objections
        - Mara:
            - Mara thinks things still need to be clarified, would like to keep it open
        - Mark R:
            - Is this a blocker for the upcoming election?
        - Mara:
            - Clarification regarding contracting, e.g.:
                - major clients of consultancy
                - single-client contractor
            - Mara doesn't know if she could be a PD by the current rules
        - Josh:
            - Usual method is "majority of income"
        - Mark:
            - Sounds like this is a blocker, needs to be clarified
            - Can probably move forward with nominations, but need to clarify before the actual selection meeting
        - Eric Holk:
            - This caused stress last time, needing to make judgement calls
            - This is a good point we still have "undefined behavior"
            - Solving this would make facilitator role less stressful
        - James:
            - We should have a "next step", we have both a deadline and a blocker
        - Eric Holk:
            - Worth taking extra time to do the right thing here
        - Mark R:
            - While still open to continuing, would prefer to rotate.
        - James:
            - We should consider the blocker when picking dates
        - Jack H:
            - Dates from last year don't have a council meeting the right week
            - We should push back one week
            - This misses the October date
            - This pushes us back to Nov board meeting anyway
        - Eric Holk:
            - Was selection meeting regular or special timed?
            - We could schedule a one-off
        - Eric Holk:
            - Make announcement of affiliates that are definitely staying to make that clear
        - Jack H:
            - Maybe not? Would rather see nominations despite conflicts
                - Would rather know about conflicts
                - Other side: Not sure if all PDs want to mention conflicts
        - Eric Holk:
            - Would give good feedback whether conflict rules may need to be revised
        - **OUTCOME**:
            - Not closing issue
            - Will slip project director elections to Nov 12th board meet
            - October 22nd is the "selection made" date, possible council meetings:
                - Sept 27th
                - Oct 11th
                - **Oct 25th** Preferred selection choice date
            - Process running "through October" - roughly a month
    - [NEW] Making a statement about the `time` breakage response (*ehuss* **Time**: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Decide if we should make a coordinated statement about the work being done regarding https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/127343
        - Eric Huss:
            - Gotten Feedback/Pressure about `time` breakage in the previous release
            - It is a cross-team effort currently, no one team has responsibility
            - Can we coordinate and communicate with people at large to improve situation?
        - Jack H:
            - In favor of this, it is unfortunate
            - To Mara: Is libs team coordinating response?
        - Mara:
            - It was discussed, but libs team is busy, if a blog post happened likely good
            - Depends on what goes into the blog post
            - Should describe:
                - What happened
                - What we are doing to avoid (still in flux!)
            - Different perspectives will result in different blog posts
            - How can we find "the perspective of the project as a whole"
            - What was the part that went wrong?
                - Breakdown in release notes comms?
                - Should never have happened at all?
                - May not have consensus at the moment
        - Eric Holk:
            - First response:
                - This isn't a council issue
                - BUT, it is cross team, so it probably is the council
                - Take the lead here, put the councils name on the blog post
        - Eric Huss:
            - No preference where we communicate, could be internals
            - Doesn't have to be big public effort
            - Don't necessarily need to prepare conclusions
        - Jack H:
            - +1 to council being involved here
            - "people want a blog post and don't have bandwidth"
            - Council could help getting something out
            - "big thing here is explaining what happened and why, and where we are now"
            - We don't have to commit to next steps yet
            - Project is
                - Aware of this
                - Committed to best resolution
        - Mark:
            - Putting something out on internals is a good step
            - Putting out a blog post is awkward
                - "We saw and are maybe going to do something" is maybe not useful
            - AFA(Mark)K: Not consensus on how to address this wrt policy
        - Eric Holk:
            - +1 to not committing to resolution
            - +1 to stating outcome was not ideal
        - James: consider two audiences
        - Eric Huss:
            - Help people know we are not ignoring it
            - Help people get full context of "a whole bunch of stuff going on"
            - Eric Huss will draft something up, needs:
                - Commitments from people to talk with him to understand things, particularly Mara
        - Mara:
            - Had a Libs API meeting
            - Invited people from Release
            - Can summarize to Eric, but Mara can forward that info onwards
    - All Hands Announcement (*Mara*: 15 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Blog post that announces the All Hands 2025
        - **Proposal**: Draft: https://hackmd.io/NllwSTmOTUaiep3D1KRgwg
        - (Note: we all took time to read this)
        - Jack:
            - We should make it clear even if someone doesn't fill out the form they could still get
              an invite
        - Mark:
            - Language is a little hard to read and assume you are excluded somehow
            - "We intend to consider a broad definition as members of the Rust project"
        - Eric Holk:
        - Mark:
            - Added wording to bottom of doc
        - Mara:
            - Everyone who is interested should fill it out
            - Generally should include anyone in *active* working groups
        - Josh Gould:
            - Are we using this as an official definition of "is/isn't a project member",
            - Or "who is/isn't going to the event"
        - Eric Holk:
            - Setting definition for who is invited to event
        - There was an informal poll, everyone seemed OK with the draft
        - Will move draft to public PR
- Call for clarifications
    - Jack: Decided to try to review minutes, added to template
- Turn off recording
- Minutes review
- Check-out
