# 2024-08-02

## Attendance

Council: eholk, james, mark, jack, mara, josh gould
Apologies: ehuss

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Eric Holk
  - Note taker: Mark
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1)
    - Keynote at RustConf is officially announced, please let Jack know if there are specific topics that are good to cover.
    - Several PRs open around project directors etc, please check boxes.
    - All-hands -- things are going well, making progress on signing contracts.
    - Embedded WG -- micro(?)-survey planned.
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - NEW: Approval process for Council survey summary (*Mark* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Agree on approvals needed to post summary publicly as draft and non-draft.
        - **Proposal**: Agree that 1 second is needed for both, since while we will share publicly it is primarily intended at internal audience.
        - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392736-council.2Fprivate/topic/Survey.20responses
        - Mark:
            - How to move from "private" to something we can discuss publicly
            - (discuss proposal above)
            - No objection to plan, will proceed with 1 second for draft then non draft
    - NEW: Discussion regarding teams refactoring and WG sunsetting (*James* **Time**: 15 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss potential structures for teams currently contained within Launching Pad, including WGs
        - **Proposal**: None, currently
        - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Sunsetting.20of.20Working.20Groups
        - James: We have had discussions about an "Advocacy team", with unclear home (top-level, or elsewhere). There are other groups beyond the WGs, but want to start working through addressing the WGs as a first pass.
        - James: Looking for opinions etc. so that I can finish drafting proposal with a concrete future home.
        - Jack: Multiple proposals could be good? It's not clear to me what the scope here should/could be.
            - Step 1: For each group under launching pad, if there is a good place, move them. One by one. e.g., async can "just" move. Embedded is more difficult.
            - Step 2: Define groups (e.g., teams/marker-teams/project-groups) that we want things to bucket into, prior to getting into the details of what goes where.
        - Eric Holk: Community team feels relevant here too. Advocacy feels like it could fall under that (or not). +1 to moving things that have obvious current places. Once done, maybe build community team around what remains...? (Doesn't feel entirely right, but perhaps a way forward).
        - James: Lots of teams have a clear new home, so agreed that we can potentially start there. Would be good to discuss scope we want for community -- general Rust advocacy feels larger. Advocacy feels 2-way bridge vs. mostly outward facing.
        - Eric Holk: For wg-async, we've been talking a lot about refactoring. I don't have bandwidth myself but I can try to find a champion to write an RFC from the wg. For wg-embedded, a t-compiler-advisors or similar could work?
            - James: yes, but it's more of a `t-*-advisors`, seems quite common for this to happen.
        - Mara: Lots of WG members are potentially just inactive/gone. Maybe we can ask everyone whether they should be part of the teams/groups they are on, and if not, prune out the now-empty groups. Perhaps automate and do that yearly. E.g. send everyone a list of teams they are on and an easy way to remove themselves or sunset the team.
            - James: I was wary of a wide broadcast, but perhaps just telling people to wait if they're not feeling confident either way.
        - Josh: I would not try to adjust/insert into community team, rather build a parallel structure and see where that structure evolves.
        - Mara: Pruning the tree of teams/groups before we start trying to move/shuffle seems like it helps avoid editing things that actually just need cleaning.
        - Jack: Let's start with the easy (just remove) for sure. "Just" making a team is not enough for advocacy. We need to get other teams to buy-in for that to be effective.
        - James: Please send thoughts my way on what teams are doing / how they should best interact with the advocacy team.
        - James: Getting a bar of teams to say what is the team doing / what is the team not doing would help figure out where teams should go in the chart.
        - Eric Holk: Charters have been tried but it's quite hard. But +1 to having it.
        - Mark:
            - Color on the charter story:
                - Largest hurdles, on paper it sounds obviously good
                - In practice: "how is this actually going to help me"
                - Risk of wasted work
            - Try to figure out the gap to making this useful
            - Connect to funding?
       - James: Thanks for the context, agreed.
       - James: Next step is to reach out to start clearing out "easy" teams (deletion and movement) etc. Will start work on that and keep the council updated with progress.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

---

- Moving to a private session (below might get dropped)
