# Council 2024-08-16

## Attendance

Council: Mara, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, James Munns, Santiago (sub for eholk), Mark
Apologies: Josh Gould

## Notes

- Check-in
- Record attendance
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Jack?
  - Notes: Mark
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1)
    - Foundation Fellowships update (ehuss)
        - Coordinating with Paul, aiming to wrap these up within the next week and move forward
  - (Actually happened at end of meeting) Ubuntu summit reminder, look at hackmd in private
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - PD Elections behind schedule (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Get help with getting it started? Uncertain about who is facilitating.
        - Eric Huss: We need to get this started. Did eholk@ explicitly indicate interest in facilitating?
            - No recollection of specific interest.
        - Eric Huss: We should identify a facilitator + kick off the process, running a bit behind.
        - James: Should we tracking issue?
            - Mark: Looks like we have a couple already on the board. The PD requirements are still pending checkboxes.
        - Jack: Let's aim to get https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/86 merged, and then move forward with identifying owner.
    - Council selections (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Also behind schedule. ehuss will help kick off, but would appreciate help.
        - Eric Huss: I'll own writing a blog post, but lang/infra/libs/mods reps will need to work with their teams to coordinate selections.
    - Discuss shortening latency for posting minutes (*James* **Time**: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Identify any blockers, attempt to enumerate to-do list for every publish
        - Potential alternative + extension to https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/88
        - James: Been some discussion on this topic. One of the topics has been whether we can cut latency on posting.
        - Jack: Maybe we can ping 1-2 days after meeting to summarize?
            - James: I'm happy to volunteer to own this.
        - Mark: Maybe we can reserve a couple minutes *in* the meeting to skim minutes and agree?
            - Some agreement to this.
        - Jack: Sign-off from reps in the meeting seems like our own checklist right now.
        - Santiago: What typically happens with the recordings?
            - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md#recording
            - Jack: Could be another avenue.
        - Eric Huss: Pinging people doesn't seem to work for getting quick agreement.
        - James: Aiming to improve the fast case, with an ability to fallback on Zulip if there are concerns/objections.
        - James: Is consent of the council for minutes unanimous or quorum or ...?
            - Mara: I'd like to see specific approval from the people "quoted" in the minutes.
        - Mark: +1 to needing specific approval. Transparency of having people attributed to statements is good.
        - Mark: Can we agree to reserve some time in the meeting to reaching agreement?
            - Jack: Let's still check boxes, but reserve the time sounds good.
        - Agreed to try out reserving some in-meeting time for checking boxes.
    - All hands announcement (*Mara*, **Time**: 15 minutes)
      - **Goal**: Decide what exactly we want to announce next week.
      - Mara: Exact dates are known, just announcement of them needs to happen.
      - Mara: I think we have alignment on when/where to post, but open question on *who* is allowed to attend?
      - Mara: Don't want to wait for the WG etc discussion.
      - Jack: "We plan to invite all project members and some extra people maybe". Most people are probably going to know "Yes, definitely invited." Expect to invite all project members and maybe beyond. Expect an explicit invitation in/at X time (e.g., in 1-1.5 months).
      - Jack: How much space do we have?
          - Mara: ~2 wings -- 250ish people total, otherwise around 100-150 people if just one wing.
          - Mara: RustNL will invite other groups (e.g. RfL, bevy, ..) if we don't use the space.
      - James: "all project members" feels iffy
      - Mara: Embedded is "safe" to invite, we'll have the space. Open question on funding for travel.
      - Mark: I like the idea of asking for people to explicitly indicate interest (google form?), indicating why they're a part of the project.
      - Jack: Generally not worried about needing to dis-invite people.
      - Jack: Want to push back against asking for interest, and instead make a list and explicitly ask for RSVP's.
      - James: Maybe could use survey tooling around this.
      - Mara: More of formally signing up for the event. "Click here and you are registered" vs. "Click here to request access" seems like the distinction.
      - Jack: Worried about people getting too many forms...
      - James: Regardless of format, I think whatever we send should ask for whether people need travel grants (and proactively indicate availability).
      - Mara: RustNL is going to sell tickets for conference. Maybe RustNL should own the source of truth? Tickets are approved by council, but they own deduplicating etc.
      - Jack: Maybe 2 waves? 1st wave could be core people and 2nd wave is more of a periphery of people / those we miss in the first wave...
      - Jack: Some concern maybe about privacy?
          - Mark: I don't think there's any concern.
          - Mara: Information needed is basically just for the badge. RustNL needs to have it.
      - Jack: Do we have some kind of consensus?
      - Mara: I will write a blog post for RustNL and the Council, show to the rest of the council (e.g. "you can request a ticket on the RustNL website"), and go from there.
          - Jack: Can we wait on the ticket requests?
          - Mark: I don't see what we'd be waiting for. This is a more detailed/accurate way of recording "I'm interested".
          - Jack: As long as this is not the only opportunity, then that seems fine. Announcing sooner rather than later is my preference, even if that pushes tickets out.
      - Mara: Anyone who *doesn't* request a ticket, if we expect them there, we should talk to those people.
      - Jack: Letter of explicit invitation is useful for employers.
      - Mara: Yes, Stichting Rust Nederland (RustNL) can provide those official invitation, also for visa purposes.
      - Conclusion: Seems fine to make an invite request and that we want to announce dates soon. Mara to write draft for blog post.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
- Minutes check-out (2 minutes)
