# Council meeting 2024-09-27

- Check-in
- Record attendance in minutes
  - Council: Mara, Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Mark, Josh Gould
  - Observers: Santiago, Urgau, Jack H
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: eholk
  - Note Taker: James
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1)
    - Welcome TC
        - Oli will join in December
    - (ehuss) Travel grant policy for approval: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/96
    - Embedded Survey prelim notes: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/discussions/796#discussioncomment-10742588
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - All-Hands / unconf groups (*Mara*, **Time**: 15 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Update on the all-hands organisation.
        - **Goal**: Pick groups to invite to join the all-hands/unconference at Rust Week.
        - Context: Rust Week schedule: https://i.imgur.com/bVeW1kS.png
        - Context: See [map of all-hands venue](https://i.imgur.com/WzCb9wW.png): Plan is to use the pink rooms for the Rust project, and the green rooms for user/interest groups (examples: Embedded, Rust for Linux, Bevy, C++ interop, Education, UI/App dev, ...)
        - NOTES
            - Mara: (discussion of schedule + map links above)
            - Blog post sent out with Form to sign up
                - 150ish responses
                - 92 yes, 17 no, 4 alum, 9 wg, 1 project group
                - 2 marker team, 4 guests, 5 contribs, 15 spam
            - Discussion on room for embedded + other wgs
            - Discussion on sponsored rooms
            - Removed some inactive working groups when no response re: all-hands
            - Decided: WG/PG members are welcome too.
            - James: For alumni - see if there is a team that vouches for them?
            - We'll approve alumni on case-by-case basis.
            - Generally:
                - Some invited guests are probably fine
                - Probably ticket only, not travel (except as part of standard travel groups)
            - Second topic re unconf guests:
                - Examples: Rust for Linux, Bevy, Embedded, Education, C++ interop, UI/App dev, ...
                - How much control does LC want to have over Unconf Guests?
            - TC:
                - Interest from Safety Critical group?
            - James:
                - Might want to ping Foundation for groups?
            - Mark:
                - OK with RustNL doing curation
                - Share list to view missing/conflicts
            - James + TC:
                - Okay to delegate to Mara
                - Otherwise Mara is okay as responsible for choices
                - (consent given)
    - [OLD] Inference breakage post (*ehuss* **time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Inform on status.
        - **Goal**: Get confirmation that everyone is OK to move forward
        - **Goal**: How to get assistance with technical issue on inference itself?
        - Notes:
            - Moving forward, waiting on response from someone, pending
            - EHuss will get TC a copy
            - Do we know who can help with the inference question?
                - Follow up with TC
            - Plan is to move forward with Inside Rust blog post
    - [OLD] Nominating PDs (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss renominating individuals
        - Notes:
            - 1.0-1.5 nominations
            - Thoughts on nominating people we didn't select last year?
            - EHolk: Definitely had good, unselected candidates last year, OK
            - James: Would prefer to privately ask for +1 before renominating
            - EHolk:
                - Review of last year's process, places where consent was checked
                - Sometimes it's good to nominate people who might not *expect* to,
                  but balance with people who do not *want* to.
            - TC:
                - +1 to ping privately
            - EHolk:
                - Policy of asking vs "best practice"
            - EHuss:
                - Will ping the whole previous list
    - [OLD] PD Election (*ehuss* **Time**: 10 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Figure out the facilitator
        - We have been unable to move this forward async. How do we fix this?
        - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Foundation.20PD.20Elections.202024
        - NOTES:
            - EHolk: What is the timeline again?
                - Nominations Oct 9th
                - 1 week feedback period
                - End of October: choice made
                - November something: Next board meeting
            - James: Have we repinged the foundation post-rustconf?
            - Mark:
                - We were optimistic about foundation help, but unclear on details
            - EHolk:
                - Don't want to be primary contact, but could co-facilitate
            - TC: In for co-facilitating!
            - General consent on this duo
    - [NEW] Budget tracking (*ehuss* **time**: 2 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Is it OK to track our budget publicly?
        - **Goal**: Is it OK to track in hackmd?
        - (If discussion is more than 2 minutes, then take it to zulip.)
        - NOTES:
            - Keeping it short, but we should understand how much budget is reserved + spent
            - HackMD could be fine?
            - James:
                - Public or private is fine, as long as public doesn't cause hesitance
            - TC: Good with Public + HackMD
            - EHolk: Good with public w/ broad categories
            - Josh:
                - Account is tracked with by the foundation, is doing book keeping
                - Is this parallel work?
                - Would be publicising something the foundation isn't? Probably check with them
            - EHuss:
                - Slightly different tracking, include made budget decisions and reservations
                - Not "business fidelity" tracking
                - Get update from Paul on zulip
            - James:
                - Can we just have them be the "owner" of the reports, and get feedback?
    - [NEW] Motion to try issue tracker oriented agenda and nominations process (*TC*, time: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss what this system would look like and what the advantages are.
        - **Proposal**: Adopt this system on a trial basis for the next three meetings.
        - **Alt Proposal**: Schedule more time to discuss with a more detailed presentation if we can't get consensus to try it on the basis of a short informal discussion.
        - NOTES:
            - Original RFC had a section re agenda (TC quoted this)
            - TC feels this falls a bit short of that, RFC seems worded around issues
            - Lang + Libs API are assembled automatically from a list of issues on GH,
                - Nominated issues by council members or other project members
            - Allows more time to assemble issues, put more context, background info
            - Largest improvement is it gives more visibility to community
            - "Two way street" for feedback to and from the council
            - Callback to leadership council survey wrt unclarity
            - Mara:
                - Other teams work more async, LC is more sync
                - Collaborative work generally only happens in meetings
                - Other teams are burning down an "infinite" backlog
                - LC usually plans meetings to the minute
            - James:
                - Split brain re: minutes vs agenda
                - Open to using issues (or discussion)
                - EWG does use discussions for meeting agendas
            - TC:
                - In meeting process probably on HackMD still
                - Lang is also sync
            - EHolk:
                - Don't do a lot of async work now, but would like it to happen
                - Some kind of prioritization mechanism?
            - Mara:
                - Happy with changes, want to keep in some form the planning re: time, and keep a one-liner goal and proposal for everything.
            - TC:
                - We can make prio, time, goal, proposal are part of the "nomination" stage
            - EHolk:
                - Use bot for this, update to match our workflows?
            - James:
                - Open to try for three meetings
            - Consensus check?
                - EHuss: Slight negative. More work for everyone. (Mara +1)
            - James:
                - Who can execute? TC.
            - EHolk:
                - Concern: if there's negative sentiment, careful we don't roll on momentum
                  after 3 weeks, definitely do careful review.
                - TC will ensure agenda includes review
    - DID NOT GET TO:
        - [NEW] Motion to stop recording meetings (*TC*, time: 10 minutes)
            - **Goal**: Discuss benefits versus risks of recording these meetings.
            - **Proposal**: Stop recording these as the risks outweigh the benefits.
        - [NEW] Motion to split `#council/private` into two streams (*TC*, time: 5 minutes)
            - **Goal**: Discuss reasons we might want to have a shared history private channel.
            - **Proposal**: Split our private channel into two streams.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Minutes review
- Check-out
