# 2024-07-19

## Attendance

Council: eholk, james munns, mark, jack, mara, ehuss, josh gould
Observers: TC, Santiago

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator:
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - James: Good feedback in the "Sunsetting WGs" Zulip Thread
    - EHolk: Opened PR clarifying Project Directors "Status Quo Documentation"
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/86
- Consent to agenda
    - Review of Project Board
        - James to add item wrt Working Group
    - Consented to!
- Agenda items
    - [NEW] LC survey results (Jack **Time**: 15 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss and identify actionable next steps
        - Nothing to lead with, but probably should discuss it
        - EHolk: Read over raw responses:
            - Mix of things going well
            - People mentioned lack of drama
            - Comments re: Transparency
        - James:
            - Will we publish a summary?
            - all@ is spam is a problem for the whole project
        - Eric Huss
            - We will summarize, not sure how or in what format
            - Hope the council will help with this
            - re: all@ - current plan is to get google workspace set up
            - Mark is working on ^, in progress
        - Josh:
            - In favor of a good version of all@
            - Quite a bit of spam DOES go to all@
        - Jack:
            - Overarching theme from the comments: People don't know what we are doing
            - We do put out blog posts periodically
            - Try to discuss in the public council channel
            - Project board could help with this?
        - James:
            - Should have a standard council explainer paragraph that we put at the top of blogs? May help to get people to know what the council's role is, etc.
        - Mark
            - Some comments implied "not sure what we do" AND "not sure what we SHOULD do"
            - Esp re: past experience, people can still read a blog post and "not be effective"
              in explaining
            - We might need more direct interaction, like going to team meetings
        - EHolk
            - One person in the project reached out and said "no idea what the council is doing"
            - When explained, matched what people wanted - this helped inspire project board
            - Just because it exist doesn't mean that people will find it
            - Mix of "announcements" being overwhelming
            - Like the RustConf keynote idea, we should have representation at all-hands
        - Mara
            - We could do better, but maybe don't spend too much effort on marketing
            - We're doing more and more things that actually impact people, e.g. all-hands and travel grants. This will reach many people.
            - Some survey responses were very positive about this
        - Jack
            - Devils advocate: After every meeting we could have someone summarize minutes
            - This may not be worth the time
            - Could be useful thing for a staff person to do, maybe not before that
        - EHolk: time check
        - Jack: Any actionable steps other than publish?
        - Mara: Actionable item is figuring out our visibility story
        - EHuss: Anyone want to help work on the summary?
        - Mark: Volunteered to help summary post
        - EHuss: Re communication, this might be the nature of the problem no ideas of how to fix
        - JoshG:
            - Value people's opinions, but it's not the only metric of success
            - Not all responders have an even level of general knowledge
    - All-hands budget (Mara **Time**: 15 minutes)
       - **Goal**: Decide how much money to reserve for 1) the all-hands and 2) the 10-year birthday celebration.
       - RustNL will try to get as much sponsorship money as possible, but needs to know what they can fall back to to be able to make commitments. (E.g. sign contracts for the venue and catering, etc.)
       - Proposal: 25k? 50k? 100k? 200k?  (Separate from the travel+hotel budget.)
       - Mara:
           - Last meeting everyone was open to spending money
           - This is likely to be a very big event
           - We need to sign contracts with vendors now, knowing money is available helps
           - How do we decide how to budget for this
       - James:
           - Do we have a budget as a council?
           - We should probably delegate planning and spending as much as possible
       - Eric:
           - Might want to think coarsely in "tiers" (25/50/75/100k)
           - Probably better to overshoot?
           - Balance between "need meets the budget" (and vice versa)
           - We do have a budget from the foundation
               - 325k/year
               - set aside 75k for travel budget
               - Not likely to hit either budget
           - Unclear where next year's event comes out of budget wise
       - Jack:
           - Jack put together a plan for budget proposal
           - Number after estimating everything clearly wanted
               - Was 170k for everything known
           - Next year likely the same
           - Probably reasonable to budget 200k total between both years
       - Mara:
           - 0 is uncomfortable. 25k enables minimal plans.
           - 50-75k is very comfortable
           - no way we'll spend 100k, but it makes decisions easy right now (to not get stuck in negotiations about relatively small amounts, etc.)
       - Josh:
           - Expect a LOT of last minute requests for international travel aid
       - EHolk:
           - Does budget set out include hiring compiler ops + council staff
           - yes and no, respective
       - James:
           - Rolling nature means maybe we should allocate funds
       - Jack:
           - Give RustNL best budget we can, 100k might be reasonable
           - They don't HAVE to use all of it
           - This is likely the most enriching thing we can do that is clearly within our budget
           - Go for 100k?
       - Josh:
           - Longer term, we should have a plan if we don't have continued funding
           - Have a "rainy 6mo plan" because it's a good idea
       - EHolk:
           - Biggest pause is council hiring
           - 100k doesn't preclude that
       - Mara:
           - re: hiring money on hiring someone
           - We aren't on track to spend our whole budget
           - RustNL has a bank account; knowing that the money is there is helpful even if RustNL doesn't get the money right away
       - Jack:
           - 100k over two years is likely to still give us lots of latitude
           - Could always have more ideas (hiring) that could push budget
           - But that isn't in flight
       - James:
           - Easier to approve 50k easy now, refresh end of year?
           - If 100k is easy to approve, no arguments
       - EHolk: Time check
       - JoshG:
           - Do we have council-specific book keeping for this?
       - Mara:
           - Just Paul (Foundation) is keeping track
       - JoshG:
           - We should be keeping up on our side
       - JackH:
           - Jack has been keeping track informally
           - Should be more formally
           - Legally/officially tracked by Foundation
           - Not hearing any objections to 100k
           - Probably okay to 50/50
           - Easier for everyone to 100k now
       - ehuss:
           - Is this coming out of the project budget, or from the Foundation's general budget used for the birthday celebration / conf sponsorship?
       - Mara:
           - Foundation is reserving money for travel, probably
           - Knowing the money can come from *somewhere* is confidence granting
       - Jack:
           - Impression is that this is council driven
           - Foundation is likely more of a "sponsor" role
       - EHolk:
           - Decided to commit 100k (pending Mark's approval)
    - [OLD] Budget (ehuss **Time**: 15 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss using funds to expand project grants *if needed*
        - EHuss
            - Continuation: Would be good to get more project grant requests
              by allocating project funding
            - Seems easy to spend money on
            - Don't want it to be "free money"
            - Also unclear on how many applications so far
        - Jack
            - Make sure we don't have anything else planned for the money & do our due diligence to try to follow through with
        - EHolk
            - Sounds like a great idea
            - Already approval process
        - James
            - We should put the budget spreadsheet together
            - Approve "runner up" project grants the council could fund
        - Jack
            - Difficult to group all speculative proposals
            - Take action item to make something we can collectively track
        - EHolk
            - Opportunity for clarity
            - Keep our books public (at least coarsely)
        - EHolk: Calling time
            - Conclusions:
                - Devote some money, maybe pending some planning
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
